hello my name is Marnie and this is
Gerry on behalf of Spyderco we'd like to
thank you for purchasing our new model
204 a triangle sharp maker it is the
next generation in a long line of
Spyderco sharpeners it's our goal with
this video in the accompanying
instruction book to help you get the
most out of your new triangle sharp
maker we've arranged this video to
closely follow the instruction book but
we can only show you with pictures in
the book will be covered with live
action here you're watching the
introduction right now and in the next
section we'll give you a brief history
of blade grinds and sharpening we'll
also show you how to set up your
sharpener and then how to sharpen a
variety of knives including your
serrated blades then following the knife
section we'll show you how to sharpen
all your scissors when we're finished
with scissors we have a whole section on
shop tools and then some oddball items
such as nail clippers and potato peelers
and once we've shown you how to sharpen
everything we'll finish up by
demonstrating how easy it is to clean
the sharp maker but now to show us how
to use the sharp maker we're very
fortunate to have the founder of spider
Cove as well as the head of research and
development department Sal Glasser sal
has been involved with the development
of this sharpening system as well as all
of spider codes sharpeners and he's
undoubtedly the best person to show us
all how to get the most out of our sharp
maker so let me introduce sal Glasser
morning how are you doing great you
again it's great to have you here to
show us how to use this thing well they
said if I didn't do it they take away my
crayon now I'm really excited to learn
how to use the sharp maker but before we
get started could you give us all the
history and word sharp can get started
oh yeah they'll take a couple minutes
set up some some stuff and we'll get
right into it okay okay the the whole
history of knives goes back a long way
before we had fire we were cutting
things so a knife is actually man's
oldest tool they started back in the
Stone Age with using very hard rocks
essentially this is a piece of Flint and
the way they created the edge was by
applying pressure with another rock and
actually flaking off the Beast pieces of
Flint what you end up with is a sharp
edge which they used for for cutting
things however once the edge was gone
they had to go back to the knife maker
and recreate the edge or sharpen it and
the way they sharpened it was the way
they made the original life was by
flaking off the
drock's but but the sharpening of the
knife was a critical part of even having
won another example is here these are
from Kodiak Island in Alaska their
predecessors to lose this is the cutting
edge and this is the way they were held
and they use them for skinning animals
or scraping or cutting food
however again once the edge was gone
they needed a sharpening stone and it's
funny that these three pieces were all
dug up together out of an old dig and
the and this rather than flaking it what
they did is they used the harder stone
to actually remove part of the slate and
so they created their edge this way and
the edge could be created up to a
certain point but the angle which was
very difficult to maintain took a fair
amount of skill and even in modern days
we use natural stones this is an
Arkansas stone it's a piece of Novak you
light and it's quite hard it's harder
than any metal and so they can use it to
remove metal but again you still had to
maintain your angle so if you were
sharpening this way if you change your
angle even a little bit it changed the
the edge which made it even more
difficult to try to maintain a
consistent angle so consistency became
the the goal and about 150 years ago
people discovered that the inside of a
crock pot if you set your knife in there
this way you can see that that the curve
of the pod actually creates a consistent
angle and by running your knife on the
inside of the pot you could actually
sharpen the edge consistently because
the crock was harder than the steel and
you could actually create an edge now
this concept went a little bit further a
man named Louie graves created a piece
of porcelain very much like this only a
more modern and and the v-shape is
designed to maintain consistent angle
control and the way that's done is if
you were sharpening this way let's turn
that stone up a little bit and now we
keep the blade straight up and down
and the straight up and down visual is
the way we maintain the control now from
the early seventies on a whole slew of
various kinds of e sharpeners came into
production eventually ending up with
this this is the triangle Sharpe maker
the one that we produce and it's
probably the most sophisticated and the
most versatile of the sharpeners on the
market today and again the technique is
keeping the blade straight up and down
and I'll show you how to do that in a
few minutes but it's the edge that we're
concerned with with a knife now there's
a variety of different kinds of grinds
that they'll use to create an edge
there's four basic grinds when it's
called a hollow grind and that's where
they take your basic piece of steel and
using two wheels they hollow out a
portion this is a hollow grind and you
can see where the the steel is actually
hollowed out on both sides and that's
how you end up with an edge a second
type of edge would be called a flat
grind and that's where you start at the
top and you just go straight to the edge
it's easier to see coming down one side
and down the other a third type which
isn't use much anymore it's a it's a
double convex grind where you come
around this way sometimes it's called an
apple seed grind because of the actual
shape back in Japan they they used to
call it Hama goodI BA 800 AD it's how
far back this goes but in all cases what
you're trying to do is get to the edge
there's another type that's been used
quite a bit recently they call it a
chisel grind but this is again been
around for many years the learners that
on one side is flat or sometimes even a
little Hollow and the other side it's
actually comes in this way so you have
the grind is just on one side so what's
the point of having different grinds
they're just different ways of getting
to the edge in the case of a chopping
tool that's where you would want that
apple seed grind like on a hatchet
you'll find most hatchets are done that
way so you can have a lot of meat behind
the cutting edge so it doesn't break
down the hollow grind and the flat
grinds are the most common used today
they're just too different
two different solutions to the same
problem almost like forging Chevy's they
have two different advantages and the
the advantage of a chisel grinder a
Catawba grind is that when you're
cutting food this part gets right up to
the part you're cutting and this part
throws the food off to the side so but
in all cases what we're trying to do is
create a very sharp edge and when I'm
going to do next is show you how to use
this tool on a knife to create a sharp
edge I think most of us think a knife is
just tonight I know it's amazing yeah it
is until it goes dull and then you throw
it away and go get another one right
with this tool you can actually make the
knife sharper than it was when it was
new is that right and it's quite simple
to do because of the angle control that
started back here with the crock pot